- blog-post about M1 (#200)
conan-io/conan-io.github.io: _posts/2021-09-06-m1.markdown

---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

We were asked several times to provide some ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe this is a good place to say a word about Conan settings and package IDs:

> In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:
> 
> ```ini
> [settings]
> os=Macos
> arch=armv8
> ...
> ```
> 
> Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own Artifactory, Conan will compute a different packageID because of the new settings value.
> 
> Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any updated Macos should do work.

Then, we can explain the architecture naming and the confusion, but we already know that Conan will use `armv8`, these are the details about why.

Author: added your proposed paragraph with some re-wording

> 

Author: In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

```bash
$ cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...
```

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own
 Artifactory, Conan will compute a different packageID because of the new settings value.

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any
 updated Macos should do work.

### confusion about the architecture naming

The confusion about the architecture naming around arm64/aarch64/armv8 is already [well-known](https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/7/15/133)
 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.
* `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller).
* `AArch64` - 64-bit execution state of the `ARMv8` architecture.
* `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state.
* `ARM64` unofficial (e.g. not used in official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.

In conan, we refer to these binaries as `armv8` (meaning binaries for the `Aarch64` instruction set),
 so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines:

```bash
$ conan install -s arch=armv8

> ```

Reviewer: Better to use always full profiles, this blog post can be read (and tried) by people running Windows/Linux where the _default_ profile is not a Macos one.

Author: added your proposed paragraph with some re-wording

> ## Cross-building

Reviewer: Now let's start with the ConanCenter-related part. This is just an example, please reword:

> ## Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter
> 
> Starting on XXXXX we are building Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter. We want to help the community of developers that want to target their applications to this new architecture and are currently using Conan to manage their dependencies. 
> 
> As said before, generating binaries for Apple M1 using Conan is really straightforward, we just need to use a profile for Macos-armv8 and build our packages.
> 
> ### Cross-building
> 
> Some packages declare build-requires and they need to be executed while building the libraries. We could have connected to the CI system an M1 machine, it would have been easier, but we decided to cross-build these package using the Macos machines we were already using. 
> 
> We knew it would be harder, because it was the first configuration of ConanCenter that we would generate using cross-compilation, but at the same time the effort would pay off because the quality of recipes will increase and support for other cross-building scenarios would be easier (iOS, Android,...).
> 
> These are some of the most common adaptations we needed to do the recipes:

Also, we need to add some warning here:

_"Take into account that ConanCenter uses at the time of writing Conan v1.38, new build-helpers were not mature enough to be used in recipes. Some of the following fixes will no longer apply with the new integrations and we really expect to be able to simplify the recipes once they are available."_

Author: added your proposed paragraph with some re-wording

> ## Cross-building

Author: ```suggestion
## Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter

Starting on [24-May-2021 - 15:59 CEST](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/docs/changelog.md#24-may-2021---1559-cest)
 we are building Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter. We want to help the community
 of developers that want to target their applications to this new architecture and
  are currently using Conan to manage their dependencies.

As said before, generating binaries for Apple M1 using Conan is really straightforward, we
 just need to use a profile for Macos-armv8 and build our packages.

## Cross-building

Some packages declare their build-requires and they need to be executed while
 building the libraries. We could have connected to the CI system an M1 machine,
 it would have been easier, but we decided to cross-build these package using the
 existing Macos machines we were already using.

We knew it would be harder, because it was the first configuration of ConanCenter
 that we would be generated using the cross-compilation, but at the same time
 the effort would pay off because the quality of recipes will increase and support
 for other cross-building scenarios would be easier (iOS, Android, Emscripten, Raspberry Pi, etc).

These are some of the most common adaptations we needed to do the recipes:
```

---
layout: post
comments: false

> title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"

Author: well, M1 is not an architecture name by itself, it's a name of SoC. we may say ARMv8 to be correct, or rephrase it differently.

> title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"

Reviewer 2: I also think we should rephrase the title to something more meaningful... 
Maybe something like this?
New Apple M1 binaries: Adapting ConanCenter recipes for cross-building (I don't love the this title, maybe we can come up with something better...)

> title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"

Reviewer 3: Everybody will know what you're talking about reading the title, and you're explaining the confusion between the different names inside the post. I think you're safe. But if you want to be (overly) precise, remove the reference to the architecture: "Apple M1 support added to ConanCenter".

@czoido The title should be short and clear. I wouldn't mention cross-building in the title. That's a ConanCenter internal: interesting to read, but not really the point of the post.

> title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"

Author: okay, let's do `Apple M1 support added to ConanCenter` then.

meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

> We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

Author: ```suggestion
We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.
The article describes the following aspects:
* general information about Apple M1
* how Apple M1 binaries are created in ConanCenter
* how to adapt existing recipes to support cross-building to Apple M1
  
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I would use this section to make a brief summary of the whole post and give some general data... that we will use cross-building, that we are going to explain how to adapt recipes...

Author: thanks, I've added the summary to the section

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides

>  build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs

Author: well, I'd say all 3 are correct, depends on what do you want to say:
`tools that are adapted` is passive voice
`tools adapted` is active voice (past simple)
`tools that adapted` is same as `tools adapted` but rereferring to `tools` that were already known/mentioned before.
referring to @jgsogo as an original author of the paragraph

>  build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if the last one. Anyway, "Conan already provides build-helpers and tools adapted for this new architecture" looks like the simplest way to put it.

>  build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs

Author: okay, let's change it that way

 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.
* `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller). Or, `ARMv8-R` and `ARMv8-M`, respectively.
* `AArch64` - 64-bit execution state of the `ARMv8` architecture.
* `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state. The name is rarely used outside of the ARM documentation.
* `ARM64` - an unofficial (e.g. not used in the official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.

In conan, we refer to these binaries as `armv8` (meaning binaries for the `Aarch64` instruction set),
 so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines.

> ## Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter

Reviewer 2: Maybe I would change this title to something like: _How we create Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter using cross-building_ or something like that. Removing the _Cross-building_ title above and make a new section like _Adapting existing recipes in ConanCenter for cross-building_ or something like that... and under that all the sections about the fixes that may be needed...

Author: thanks, I've changed titles according to your suggestions

> ## Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter

Author: ```suggestion
## How do we create Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter using cross-building
```

> Starting on [24-May-2021 - 15:59 CEST](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/docs/changelog.md#24-may-2021---1559-cest)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From [24 May 2021](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/docs/changelog.md#24-may-2021---1559-cest),
```

 we are building Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter. We want to help the community
 of developers that want to target their applications to this new architecture and
  are currently using Conan to manage their dependencies.

As said before, generating binaries for Apple M1 using Conan is really straightforward, we
 just need to use a profile for macOS/ARMv8 and build our packages.

> ## Cross-building

Author: ```suggestion
## Adapting existing recipes in ConanCenter for cross-building
```

Some packages declare their build-requires and they need to be executed while

>  building the libraries. We could have connected to the CI system an M1 machine,

Author: ```suggestion
 building the libraries. We could have connected to the CI system a M1 machine,
```

 it would have been easier, but we decided to cross-build these package using the

>  existing Macos machines we were already using.

Author: ```suggestion
 existing macOS machines we were already using.
```

```python
from conans.errors import ConanInvalidConfiguration

...

def validate(self):
    if self.settings.os == "Macos" and self.settings.arch == "armv8":
        raise ConanInvalidConfiguration("sorry, M1 builds are not currently supported, give up!")
```

Of couse, we encourage contributors to provide support for additional platforms, but it may require upstream support first.

### checking for the cross-building in test_package

Since Intel Mac machines we currently use on CI won't be able to execute the ARM code, the following extra check is now required for the
 [test_package](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/methods.html#test):

```python
    def test(self):
        if not tools.cross_building(self):
            bin_path = os.path.join("bin", "test_package")
            self.run(bin_path, run_environment=True)
```

## 2 Profiles

M1 is also the very first case we adopted [two profiles](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/devtools/build_requires.html?build-and-host-contexts)
 model in ConanCenter. The long-term plan is to move all the configurations to use two profiles,

>   as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/conan_v2.html).

Author: @jgsogo what would you say is the main factors? I see it like:
- both host and build context now have the full set of settings (previously, build profile was incomplete and only contained `arch_build`/`os_build`, but e.g. no `os.version`)
- allow to have the same package but for different architectures in graph (e.g. x86 `protoc.exe` + ARM `libprotobuf.so`)

I think there were many other significant limitations with single profile, I just don't have them on mind.

>   as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/conan_v2.html).

Author: from @jgsogo :
```
I would change the link to https://github.com/conan-io/tribe/blob/main/design/023-use_always_build_profile.md, this is not the blogpost to explain or justify it.

If any justification is needed, it should come from Conan v2 documents (tribe, docs, issues, PRs,…), on the conan-center side we just echo it
```
@tapia are you okay with that? I think we can't explain everything in the blog post, providing a link to the explanation should be enough.

>   as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/conan_v2.html).

Reviewer 3: Yep, totally fine by me :-)

To cross-compile M1 binaries with conan, the following command line could be used:
```bash
$ conan install . --profile:build default --profile:host m1
```
or short form:
```bash
$ conan install . -pr:b default -pr:h m1

with the extremely simple `m1` profile:
```bash
$ conan profile show m1

include(default)
[settings]
arch=armv8
os=Macos
compiler=apple-clang
compiler.version=12.0
compiler.libcxx=libc++
build_type=Release
[options]
[build_requires]
[env]
```

> There are several important side-effects to the recipes because of the movement to the two profiles approach:

Reviewer 3: Better "switch" than "movement", I think.

### os_build and arch_build shouldn't be used

For the recipes using the two profiles approach, it's no longer recommended to use `os_build` and `arch_build` settings any longer.
If it's needed to check the `os` or `arch` of the [build context](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/systems_cross_building/cross_building.html#conan-v1-24-and-newer), the following code can be used:

```python
@property
def _settings_build(self):
    return self.settings_build if hasattr(self, "settings_build") else self.settings

if self._settings_build.os == "Windows":
	# build context: os is Windows
```

We strongly encourage authors to remove `os_build` and `arch_build` from their recipes.
We also strongly encourage all the consumers to migrate their cross-building scenarios to the two profiles approach whenever possible. The reason is because build context allows better compatibility using build requirements, avoiding separated packages for installer and tooling.

### tools.OSInfo, platform.system(), os.name shouldn't be used

Another important thing is that ConanCenter CI runs build in two phases:
* compute all the possible package IDs, excluding duplicates and invalids
* run the actual builds

> And the first phase usually runs on the Linux machine, thus, package ID computation for macOS M1 profile is done on Linux x86 build machine.

Author: ```suggestion
And the first phase usually runs on the Linux machine, thus, package ID computation for macOS M1 profile is done on Linux x86-64 build machine.
```

---
layout: post
comments: false

> title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Apple M1 support added to ConanCenter"
```

> meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"

Author: ```suggestion
meta_title: "Apple M1 support added to ConanCenter"
```

description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.
The article describes the following aspects:
* general information about Apple M1
* how Apple M1 binaries are created in ConanCenter
* how to adapt existing recipes to support cross-building to Apple M1
  

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers

>   (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for

Author: ```suggestion
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available with M1 processors. We expect the popularity and need for
```

  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides

>  build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs

Author: ```suggestion
 build-helpers and tools adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
```

 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

```bash
$ conan profile show m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...
```

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own
 [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), Conan will compute a different

>  [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) (because of the new settings value).

Author: ```suggestion
 [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) because of the new settings value.
```

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any
 updated macOS should do the job.

### Confusion about the architecture naming

The confusion about the architecture naming around arm64/aarch64/armv8 is already [well-known](https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/7/15/133)
 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

> * `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.

Author: ```suggestion
* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and the corresponding instruction set for each of them.
```

In conan, we refer to these binaries as `armv8` (meaning binaries for the `Aarch64` instruction set),
 so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines.

## How do we create Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter using cross-building

Starting on [24 May 2021](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/docs/changelog.md#24-may-2021---1559-cest),
 we are building Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter. We want to help the community
 of developers that want to target their applications to this new architecture and
  are currently using Conan to manage their dependencies.

As said before, generating binaries for Apple M1 using Conan is really straightforward, we
 just need to use a profile for macOS/ARMv8 and build our packages.

## Adapting existing recipes in ConanCenter for cross-building

Some packages declare their build-requires and they need to be executed while
 building the libraries. We could have connected to the CI system a M1 machine,
 it would have been easier, but we decided to cross-build these package using the
 existing macOS machines we were already using.

> We knew it would be harder, because it was the first configuration of ConanCenter
>  that we would be generated using the cross-compilation, but at the same time

Author: ```suggestion
We knew it would be harder, because it is the first configuration of ConanCenter
 that will be generating cross-compiled binaries, but at the same time
```

>  the effort would pay off because the quality of recipes will increase and support
>  for other cross-building scenarios would be easier (iOS, Android, Emscripten, Raspberry Pi, etc).

Author: ```suggestion
 the effort would pay off because the quality of recipes will increase and
 adding new cross-building scenarios in the future will be easier (iOS, Android, Emscripten, Raspberry Pi, etc).
```

These are some of the most common adaptations we needed to do the recipes:

> Take into account that ConanCenter uses at the time of writing [Conan v1.38](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/changelog.html#jun-2021),
>  new [build-helpers](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers.html) were not mature enough to be used in recipes. Some of the

Author: ```suggestion
Take into account that the Conan version used in ConanCenter at the time of adding the M1 support was [1.38](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/changelog.html#jun-2021),
 and the new [build-helpers](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers.html) were not mature enough to be used in production recipes.
```

 following fixes will no longer apply with the new integrations and we really
 expect to be able to simplify the recipes once they are available.

> M1 is the very first case we support the actual cross-building in ConanCenter. Many recipes (or libraries themselves, especially old)
>  might not be prepared for that, so recipe authors may decide to skip M1 support for a while:

Author: ```suggestion
This is the very first time we support actual cross-building in ConanCenter, so many recipes or
 libraries might not be prepared for that. If you need it, you can skip M1 support for a while:
```

```python
from conans.errors import ConanInvalidConfiguration

...

def validate(self):
    if self.settings.os == "Macos" and self.settings.arch == "armv8":
        raise ConanInvalidConfiguration("sorry, M1 builds are not currently supported, give up!")
```

Of couse, we encourage contributors to provide support for additional platforms, but it may require upstream support first.

### checking for the cross-building in test_package

> Since Intel Mac machines we currently use on CI won't be able to execute the ARM code, the following extra check is now required for the

Author: ```suggestion
Since the Intel Mac machines we currently use on CI won't be able to execute the ARM code, the following extra check is now required for the
```

 [test_package](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/methods.html#test):

```python
    def test(self):
        if not tools.cross_building(self):
            bin_path = os.path.join("bin", "test_package")
            self.run(bin_path, run_environment=True)
```

## 2 Profiles

> M1 is also the very first case we adopted [two profiles](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/devtools/build_requires.html?build-and-host-contexts)

Author: ```suggestion
This is also the very first time we use the [two profiles model](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/devtools/build_requires.html?build-and-host-contexts)
```

 model in ConanCenter. The long-term plan is to move all the configurations to use two profiles,

>   as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/conan_v2.html).

Author: ```suggestion
  as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://github.com/conan-io/tribe/blob/main/design/023-use_always_build_profile.md).
```

To cross-compile M1 binaries with conan, the following command line could be used:
```bash
$ conan install . --profile:build default --profile:host m1
```
or short form:
```bash
$ conan install . -pr:b default -pr:h m1

with the extremely simple `m1` profile:
```bash
$ conan profile show m1

include(default)
[settings]
arch=armv8
os=Macos
compiler=apple-clang
compiler.version=12.0
compiler.libcxx=libc++
build_type=Release
[options]
[build_requires]
[env]
```

> There are several important side-effects to the recipes because of the movement to the two profiles approach:

Author: ```suggestion
There are several important side-effects to the recipes because of the switch to the two profiles approach:
```

meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

We were asked several times to provide some ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

bash
$ cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own

>  Artifactory, Conan will compute a different packageID because of the new settings value.

Author: ```suggestion
 [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), Conan will compute a different
 [package ID]*https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html(because of the new settings value.
```

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any

>  updated Macos should do work.

Author: ```suggestion
 updated Macos should do a work.

```

layout: post
comments: false
title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

We were asked several times to provide some ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

> bash

Author: ```suggestion
```bash
```

$ cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8

> ...

Author: ```suggestion
...```
```

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own
 [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), Conan will compute a different

>  [package ID]*https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html(because of the new settings value.

Author: ```suggestion
 [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) (because of the new settings value.
```

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any

>  updated Macos should do a work.

Author: ```suggestion
 updated macOS should do a work.
```

### confusion about the architecture naming

The confusion about the architecture naming around arm64/aarch64/armv8 is already [well-known](https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/7/15/133)
 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.
* `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller).
* `AArch64` - 64-bit execution state of the `ARMv8` architecture.
* `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state.
* `ARM64` unofficial (e.g. not used in official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.

In conan, we refer to these binaries as `armv8` (meaning binaries for the `Aarch64` instruction set),
 so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines:

```bash

> $ conan install -s arch=armv8

Author: ```suggestion
cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1
[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...
```

comments: false
title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

```bash

> $ cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1

Author: yes, more portable as well

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...```

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own
 [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), Conan will compute a different
 [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) (because of the new settings value.

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any
 updated macOS should do the job.

> ### confusion about the architecture naming

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Confusion about the architecture naming
```

```

Of couse, we encourage contributors to provide support for additional platforms, but it may require upstream support first.

### checking for the cross-building in test_package

Since Intel Mac machines we currently use on CI won't be able to execute the ARM code, the following extra check is now required for the
 [test_package](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/methods.html#test):

```python
    def test(self):
        if not tools.cross_building(self):
            bin_path = os.path.join("bin", "test_package")
            self.run(bin_path, run_environment=True)
```

## 2 Profiles

M1 is also the very first case we adopted [two profiles](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/devtools/build_requires.html?build-and-host-contexts)
 model in ConanCenter. The long-term plan is to move all the configurations to use two profiles,
  as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/conan_v2.html).

To cross-compile M1 binaries with conan, the following command line could be used:
```bash
$ conan install . --profile:build default --profile:host m1
```
or short form:
```bash
$ conan install . -pr:b default -pr:h m1

> with the extremely simple `m1` profile:

Author: they might make some sense, especially in case someone will try to build from Linux/Windows. let's update

```bash
$ conan profile show m1

include(default)
[settings]

> arch=armv8

Author: ```suggestion
arch=armv8
os=Macos
compiler=apple-clang
compiler.version=12.0
compiler.libcxx=libc++
build_type=Release
```

[options]
[build_requires]
[env]
```

There are several important side-effects to the recipes because of the movement to the two profiles approach:

### os_build and arch_build shouldn't be used

For the recipes using the two profiles approach, it's no longer recommended to use `os_build` and `arch_build` settings any longer.
If it's needed to check the `os` or `arch` of the build context, the following code can be used:

```python
@property
def _settings_build(self):
    return self.settings_build if hasattr(self, "settings_build") else self.settings

if self._settings_build.os == "Windows":
	# build context: os is Windows
```

> We strongly encourage authors to remove `os_build` and `arch_build` from their recipes.
> We also strongly encourage all the consumers to migrate their cross-building scenarios to the two profiles approach whenever possible.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We strongly encourage authors to remove `os_build` and `arch_build` from their recipes.
We also strongly encourage all the consumers to migrate their cross-building scenarios to the two profiles approach whenever possible. The reason is because build context allows better compatibility using build requirements, avoiding separated packages for installer and tooling.
```

Trying to explain a little about the reason behind for migrating from os_build/arch_build to build context

### tools.OSInfo, platform.system(), os.name shouldn't be used

Another important thing is that ConanCenter CI runs build in two phases:
* compute all the possible package IDs, excluding duplicates and invalids
* run the actual builds

> and the first phase usually runs on the Linux machine, thus, package ID computation for macOS M1 profile is done on Linux x86 build machine.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
And the first phase usually runs on the Linux machine, thus, package ID computation for macOS M1 profile is done on Linux x86 build machine.
```

While it's absolutely legal, it may have some important consequences for the recipes which may use conditional logic to detect the build platform.
In general, it's strongly discouraged to use

>  [tools.OSInfo](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/tools.html#tools-osinfo-and-tools-systempackagetool),
>   [platform.system](https://docs.python.org/3/library/platform.html),
>   [os.name](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) or similar facilities to detect the build platform.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* [tools.OSInfo](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/tools.html#tools-osinfo-and-tools-systempackagetool),
* [platform.system](https://docs.python.org/3/library/platform.html),
* [os.name](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) or similar facilities to detect the build platform.
```

---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

> We were asked several times to provide some ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

Reviewer 5: Not generic ARM binaries, they are not there in the general case, just the Apple ARM M1 binaries, or at least Apple OSX ARM binaries.

Author: let's add some clarification then

 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

```bash
$ cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...```

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own
 [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), Conan will compute a different
 [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) (because of the new settings value.

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any

>  updated macOS should do a work.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 updated macOS should do the job.
```

### confusion about the architecture naming

The confusion about the architecture naming around arm64/aarch64/armv8 is already [well-known](https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/7/15/133)
 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.
* `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller).
* `AArch64` - 64-bit execution state of the `ARMv8` architecture.
* `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state.
* `ARM64` unofficial (e.g. not used in official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.

In conan, we refer to these binaries as `armv8` (meaning binaries for the `Aarch64` instruction set),
 so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines:

> ```bash

Reviewer 5: Identical, repeated profile as above, probably can be skipped.

Author: okay, let's remove the second occurrence of the same profile

cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1
[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...
```

## Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter

Starting on [24-May-2021 - 15:59 CEST](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/docs/changelog.md#24-may-2021---1559-cest)
 we are building Apple M1 binaries in ConanCenter. We want to help the community
 of developers that want to target their applications to this new architecture and
  are currently using Conan to manage their dependencies.

As said before, generating binaries for Apple M1 using Conan is really straightforward, we

>  just need to use a profile for Macos-armv8 and build our packages.

Author: ```suggestion
 just need to use a profile for macOS/ARMv8 and build our packages.
```

## Cross-building

Some packages declare their build-requires and they need to be executed while
 building the libraries. We could have connected to the CI system an M1 machine,
 it would have been easier, but we decided to cross-build these package using the
 existing Macos machines we were already using.

We knew it would be harder, because it was the first configuration of ConanCenter
 that we would be generated using the cross-compilation, but at the same time
 the effort would pay off because the quality of recipes will increase and support
 for other cross-building scenarios would be easier (iOS, Android, Emscripten, Raspberry Pi, etc).

These are some of the most common adaptations we needed to do the recipes:

> Take into account that ConanCenter uses at the time of writing Conan v1.38,

Author: ```suggestion
Take into account that ConanCenter uses at the time of writing [Conan v1.38](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/changelog.html#jun-2021),
```

>  new build-helpers were not mature enough to be used in recipes. Some of the

Author: ```suggestion
 new [build-helpers](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers.html) were not mature enough to be used in recipes. Some of the
```

 following fixes will no longer apply with the new integrations and we really

>  expect to be able to simplify the recipes once they are available

Author: ```suggestion
 expect to be able to simplify the recipes once they are available.
```

```

Of couse, we encourage contributors to provide support for additional platforms, but it may require upstream support first.

### checking for the cross-building in test_package

Since Intel Mac machines we currently use on CI won't be able to execute the ARM code, the following extra check is now required for the
 [test_package](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/methods.html#test):

```python
    def test(self):
        if not tools.cross_building(self):
            bin_path = os.path.join("bin", "test_package")
            self.run(bin_path, run_environment=True)
```

## 2 Profiles

M1 is also the very first case we adopted [two profiles](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/devtools/build_requires.html?build-and-host-contexts)
 model in ConanCenter. The long-term plan is to move all the configurations to use two profiles,
  as this is going to be a default mode in [Conan 2.0](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/conan_v2.html).

To cross-compile M1 binaries with conan, the following command line could be used:
```bash
$ conan install . --profile:build default --profile:host m1
```
or short form:
```bash
$ conan install . -pr:b default -pr:h m1

> with the extremely simple `m1` profille:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
with the extremely simple `m1` profile:
```

```bash
$ cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1

include(default)
[settings]
arch=armv8
[options]
[build_requires]
[env]
```

There are several important side-effects to the recipes because of the movement to the two profiles approach:

### os_build and arch_build shouldn't be used

For the recipes using the two profiles approach, it's no longer recommended to use `os_build` and `arch_build` settings any longer.
If it's needed to check the `os` or `arch` of the build context, the following code can be used:

```python

> if self.settings_build.os == "Windows":

Reviewer 5: This will raise if not 2 profiles are defined, so this should be avoided directly in ConanCenter without a check for ``settings_build`` definition.

Author: yes, I think you're right

Author: ```suggestion
@property
def _settings_build(self):
    return self.settings_build if hasattr(self, "settings_build") else self.settings

if self._settings_build.os == "Windows":
```

Another important thing is that ConanCenter CI runs build in two phases:
* compute all the possible package IDs, excluding duplicates and invalids
* run the actual builds

and the first phase usually runs on the Linux machine, thus, package ID computation for macOS M1 profile is done on Linux x86 build machine.
While it's absolutely legal, it may have some important consequences for the recipes which may use conditional logic to detect the build platform.
In general, it's strongly discouraged to use
 [tools.OSInfo](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/tools.html#tools-osinfo-and-tools-systempackagetool),
  [platform.system](https://docs.python.org/3/library/platform.html),
  [os.name](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) or similar facilities to detect the build platform.
Instead, it's recommended to rely on the `settings_build` attribute:

```python

# BAD: if tools.OSInto().is_windows:
# BAD: if platform.system() == "Windows":
# BAD: if os.name == 'nt':
if self.settings_build.os == "Windows": # good!
    # build context: os is Windows
    raise ConanInvalidConfiguration("the recipe cannot be built on Windows")
```

> ### deps_cpp_info, deps_env_info and deps_user_info contain information only from the host context

Reviewer 5: Doesn't seem correct. With 2 profiles, the environment ``deps_env_info`` comes from the build context.

Author: that's copied from conan docs. if so, it has to be fixed in docs.

Author: https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/attributes.html#deps-env-info
```
Note

If using the experimental feature with different context for host and build, 
this attribute will contain only information from packages in the build context.
```

Reviewer 5: I still think this is not right: the documentation is saying:

- Packages in build context define ``deps_env_info``

You are saying:

- Packages in the build context can no longer use ``deps_env_info``, and can only use ``user_info_build``.

So this still seems contradictory.

Author: @jgsogo can you clarify then why this could be necessary in recipes?
```
    @property
    def _user_info_build(self):
        return getattr(self, "user_info_build", None) or self.deps_user_info
```
as per Diego, it seems like contradictory.

Author: checking again, I found it:
```
If using the experimental feature with different context for host and build, this attribute will contain only information from packages in the host context. Use user_info_build to access information from packages that belong to build context.
```
https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/attributes.html#deps-user-info
so this doesn't appear to be contradictory. it's contradictory in docs, because one paragraph says it only provides build context, but another one says it provides only host context.
so again, I think it's docs issue.

Reviewer 5: This is the current behavior:

```python
            if not using_build_profile:  # Do not touch anything
                conan_file.deps_user_info[n.ref.name] = n.conanfile.user_info
                conan_file.deps_cpp_info.add(n.ref.name, dep_cpp_info)
                conan_file.deps_env_info.update(n.conanfile.env_info, n.ref.name)
            else:
                if n in transitive or n in br_host:
                    conan_file.deps_user_info[n.ref.name] = n.conanfile.user_info
                    conan_file.deps_cpp_info.add(n.ref.name, dep_cpp_info)
                else:
                    conan_file.user_info_build[n.ref.name] = n.conanfile.user_info
                    env_info = EnvInfo()
                    env_info._values_ = n.conanfile.env_info._values_.copy()
                    # Add cpp_info.bin_paths/lib_paths to env_info (it is needed for runtime)
                    env_info.DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH.extend(dep_cpp_info.lib_paths)
                    env_info.DYLD_FRAMEWORK_PATH.extend(dep_cpp_info.framework_paths)
                    env_info.LD_LIBRARY_PATH.extend(dep_cpp_info.lib_paths)
                    env_info.PATH.extend(dep_cpp_info.bin_paths)
                    conan_file.deps_env_info.update(env_info, n.ref.name)
```

So it seems that what is explained in the blog post is not correct. If the docs needs a fix, lets fix the docs too.

Author: well, if it's incorrect - it will have even more consequences. it means the workaround we currently apply in numerous recipes is incorrect. and they all have to be fixed.

Reviewer 5: @jgsogo please have a look when possible

Reviewer: Those are different variables.

`deps_env_info` contains information only from dependencies in the _build_ context, as stated here in the docs (and match sources): https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/attributes.html#deps-env-info

And then, there is the _issue_ (and workaround) in ConanCenter to retrieve information from the `self.user_info` defined in a recipe. The compatible way to do it for one and two profiles is:

```
    @property
    def _user_info_build(self):
        return getattr(self, "user_info_build", None) or self.deps_user_info
```

which can be _translated_ to something like: _"to get information from the `self.user_info` defined in one of the build-requirements, you need to use `user_info_build` if available (two profiles), or fallback to `deps_user_info` that contain the information from all the requirements"_.

That's all. In some sense, all of you are right... but the blogpost contains one mistake (I follow in next comment).

Reviewer: Nevertheless, IMHO, I would remove this section from the blogpost. It enters very specific details that are not interesting for the feature or announcement.

I did a review about the structure and I was waiting for some other to comment about the structure too. Then we can go into the content and details, but first better to agree on the history, sections, pace,...

Reviewer 5: Agree with @jgsogo.

Author: I think structure is already agreed. at least no-one had any objections, except you suggested two additional paragraphs which are already there.

Author: okay, let's remove this section altogether then.

meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

```bash
$ conan profile show m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8

> ...```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
...
```
```

> ...```

Author: ```suggestion
...
```
```

---

We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

## About Apple M1

[Apple M1](https://www.apple.com/in/business/mac/pdf/Apple-at-Work-M1-Overview.pdf) is a new ARM-based SoC developed by Apple and
 based on the ARMv8 architecture. Apple has started its transition from Intel x86-64 to ARM, and new desktop computers
  (MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, and iMac) are already available shipping with M1 onboard. We expect the popularity and need for
  software ported to ARM will grow significantly as the transition goes forward.
In order to start creating your packages for M1, you don't need anything special. Conan already provides
 build-helpers and tools that adapted for this new architecture. You only need to provide proper inputs
 to creation commands, basically a host profile with the following settings:

```bash
$ conan profile show m1

[settings]
os=Macos
arch=armv8
...
```

Conan will generate the binaries for this new architecture and you can safely upload them to your own
 [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), Conan will compute a different

>  [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) (because of the new settings value.

Author: ```suggestion
 [package ID](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html) (because of the new settings value).
```

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any
 updated macOS should do the job.

### confusion about the architecture naming

The confusion about the architecture naming around arm64/aarch64/armv8 is already [well-known](https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/7/15/133)
 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.

> * `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller).

Author: ```suggestion
* `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller). Or, `ARMv8-R` and `ARMv8-M`, respectively.
```

* `AArch64` - 64-bit execution state of the `ARMv8` architecture.

> * `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state.

Author: ```suggestion
* `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state. The name is rarely used outside of the ARM documentation.
```

> * `ARM64` unofficial (e.g. not used in official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.

Author: ```suggestion
* `ARM64` - an unofficial (e.g. not used in the official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.
```

---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
meta_title: "ConanCenter: Apple M1 binaries are generated"
description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
meta_description: "general information about Apple M1 and its implications on ConanCenter"
---

> We were asked several times to provide some ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.

Author: ```suggestion
We were asked several times to provide some macOS ARM binaries for ConanCenter, and finally, they are there.
```

Of course, your building machine need to provide the tooling required for this build, but any
 updated macOS should do the job.

### confusion about the architecture naming

The confusion about the architecture naming around arm64/aarch64/armv8 is already [well-known](https://lkml.org/lkml/2012/7/15/133)
 in the development community. Let's try to clarify a bit:

* `ARMv8` - refers to the new version of the ARM architecture. It includes two execution states, `AArch32` and `AArch64`, and corresponding instruction sets for them.
* `ARMv8-A` - refers to the *A* (Application) profile of the ARM architecture, specifically. Other profiles are *R* (Real-time) and *M* (Microcontroller).
* `AArch64` - 64-bit execution state of the `ARMv8` architecture.
* `A64` - refers to the instruction set for the `AArch64` execution state.
* `ARM64` unofficial (e.g. not used in official ARM documents) but extremely popular name synonymous to the `AArch64`. Apple software (e.g. [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and other developer tools) use this naming. Also, used by many Linux distros.

In conan, we refer to these binaries as `armv8` (meaning binaries for the `Aarch64` instruction set),

>  so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines:

Author: ```suggestion
 so consumers will have to specify `arch=armv8` in their profiles or command lines.
```

> ```bash
> cat ~/.conan/profiles/m1
> [settings]
> os=Macos
> arch=armv8
> ...
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```
